Alright, in this video we are going to
show you an example of Spring XML
Configuration. I'm going to go into that
same one where we did the Chuck Norris
Quotes and reuse that and what I'm going
to do is I'm going to switch out
the Java configuration for an XML
configuration. So you can see that
they're interchangeable and actually, you may
not realize this, but we're actually
using Java configuration and XML
configuration in this because they are
annotation based configuration and all
the Beans are going to continue loading
up and into the Spring Context just like
they have been. So it's a good example to
see how these different techniques are
going to be working together for us.
Alright in this example we want to do an
XML configuration and I'm going to stay
on our little ChuckNorrisQuotes where
we have the Bean defined because it's a
nice example to work with and what I
want to do is I'm going to comment this
out and we're going to move this over to
an XML configuration. So to do this where
we put the XML configurations as in
resources, under the resources directory
and this is something that's going to be
made available to us inside of the
Spring Context on the class path. So Java
is going to load this up on the class
path. The resources folder is going to
get packaged up into the jar and it's
going to be available for us at runtime. So that's where we're going to store any
textual types of resources or images
or whatever we want to include in our
jar or deployment artifact. So I'm
going to come in here. I'm going to right
click on this and come up here and
create a New Spring Configuration File
and it's important to note, I'm pretty
sure this is a feature of IntelliJ
Ultimate. It is to have this option to go
ahead and create the XML configuration
file. So I'm going to click that now and
just call it chuck-config and we are
adding that and now what's very
important here is up at the top, is the
XML and if you're not up to speed on XML,
this is important because we are
defining an XML schema and this is
the schema that's being used.
So I'll bring in an XML namespace and
we use it in the Bean schema and so
this is all being imported. So this is
a structured document inside of XML.
I'm pretty sure I can click through to
this. Yes. So now we can see this is xsd.
This defines everything that we can
declare inside the XML document and you
can see that's pretty robust. There's a lot that we can do and I'm not
going to be able to get into everything
here as to what's going on here but we
do have a lot of options and a lot of
robust configuration abilities here
within the Spring Framework in XML
configuration but in this video we are
just doing a very simple overview. So I'm
not going to jump down there. I just
wanted to jump over there to to show you
how you can set up the versatility that
you have. So we're going to come in and
we are going to declare a Bean. I
can't remember that Bean name, ChuckNorrisQuotes and by convention we want
to give it a lowercase name, then class.
You can see the autocomplete here that
we have and that is it. So that is
XML configuration. So we'll give it a
name and a class and now because this is
declared as a Bean, the Spring Context is
going to pick that up and create this
Bean for us. Now there's one last
step we need to do because this will
fail right now. We have to come over here. So what I want to use here is the ImportResource
annotation and I'm going to
give it a class path and say
classpath and then it should find it for us. Yup, there it is. So then IntelliJ's
intellisense is quite nice there and
what this is doing is it's telling
Spring to search the classpath for a
file named chuck-config.xml and
Spring is going to pull that in. So now
just to remember, I've commented this out,
I commented out the annotation. So
Spring is not going to see this class
anymore as a configuration class and now
it's depending on this xml file to bring
it in. So let's go ahead and start this
to verify that it works properly. If you
see that Spring Context is coming up. It's launched and we will prove it and
you can see that it's still functioning
normally.
Alright, you get your first taste of Spring XML
Configuration. Now if you go and get a
job as a Spring developer, I guarantee
you you're going to run into legacy called
with a ton of XML in it, but modern
Spring applications,
the trend is definitely towards Java
Based Configuration but the XML stuff is
definitely still out there. So you need to
get this in and maybe we'll do some more
XML in the future but going on with this
course you'll see that I have a clear
preference for the Java Based
Configuration.